mediated negotiations between Israel and
Hamas to reach a deal to free Israeli
hostages in Gaza are said to restart
this coming week the decision came after
the head of Israel's Mossad intelligence
agency met the head of the CIA and the
prime minister of Qatar but Israel is
continuing its offensive in Rafa and
elsewhere in Gaza its military released
images allegedly showing an assault in
the north where it claims to have
destroyed rocket launching sites the
fighting has forced Palestinians to
abandon the jabalia refugee camp the UN
says more than 100,000 people have fled
Northern Gaza in recent weeks Israel
says it has a right to defend itself
against Hamas and continue its campaign
in Gaza even though the international
court of justice called on Israel to end
its offensive and for more let's go to
Dear Al Bala in Gaza where we're joined
by Hisham Mahana he's a spokesperson at
the international committee of the Red
Cross there uh so very good to have you
with us on DW hisam so we hear that uh
International criticism is mounting when
it comes to Israel's uh fight against
Hamas in Gaza yet the fighting is go on
as we've heard what is the situation on
the
ground hello Monica and thank you for
having me the situation continues to
become worse by the hour um across
different areas um in the Gaza STP in
the North in particular people have been
calling the International Community to
Red Cross hot lines asking for
evacuations and asking to be transfer to
receive medical treatment that is not
available in the entire north of Gaza
Strip because the hospitals there most
of them have come Rubble or they are
pushed out of service due to the
hostilities uh and they have become in a
more dire situation there and we have
been witnessing that um thousands of
families had to evacuate again um after
many times of displacement uh trying to
run for their lives and trying to find a
refuge of safe hayen uh for themselves
for their babies Etc in the South the
operation the Israeli Israeli military
operation continues in Rafa and it's
expanding and um so far the estimates
are
around 900,000 people have fled already
from Rafa after living for months in the
most D humanitarian situation and they
have moved to areas that are not
equipped with a basic uh infrastructure
to provide people with the basic NE
Necessities including um sufficient
amounts of food drinking water and
healthc Care Service as well and on top
of all Safety and Security which makes
it even harder for the humanitarian
organizations and steams maintain their
humanitarian activi that is what I
wanted to ask youan because uh I mean
you mentioned and you described uh
vividly also the situation for families
and children Gaza of course having one
of the youngest populations in the world
uh how can the Red Cross how do eight
organizations such as yours what can
they do in this as you mentioned
yourself increasingly dire situation to
protect
civilians well the expectations are
enormous and they keep increasing the
humanitarian situation can never be a
solution to end the suffering neither
the military neither the military
operation only political efforts that
can put an end to this Bloodshed and the
suffering of thousands of people and
families on both sides of the Border
um our humanitarian response has been
significantly impacted just like any
other humanitarian organization first
due to the hostilities there's no safe
place in Gaza this is not such an
environment in which humanitarian
workers can work efficiently or achieve
the bare minimum of a meaningful
humanitarian response from the ground
and secondly um there is limited
resources including fuel which impacts
our movements which impacts our
humanitarian activities we have been
trying to provide an average of 50 ,000
hot meals on daily basis across Southern
Gaza Strip now we can only offer 10,000
in some of the areas we can reach this
is a a very simple example how
humanitarian response has been impacted
by hostilities well hisam Mahana uh
spokesperson at the icrc talking to us
live from gasa first of all thank you so
much for joining us and also thank you
so much for the work you're doing there
all the best